# Software Engineering Article

[This](https://www.spiceworks.com/tech/devops/articles/software-developer-vs-software-engineer/) is the article that I read/wanted to talk about.

In class, we talked about how often times, jobs with titles besides "Software Engineer" can still possess the same responsibilities of a software engineer. One of the examples was "Software Developer". This article claims that these two are often fundamentally misunderstood, and have distinct responsibilities. However, it also admits that the jobs of a software developer and a software engineer can overlap.

One main distinction that the article mentions is that while a software engineer adheres to a specific principles in their work, a software developer is more freeform. Furthermore, a software engineer is a professional within an organization, while a software developer can be either part of a company or a freelancer. I found this really interesting because the article seems to think of a software developer as being more of the "bespoke developer" that was mentioned during lecture. For example, some of a software developer's responsibilities, according to the article, includes "understanding client or user expectations" and "developing and testing software to meet the desires of a specific client". These all sound like the "\[producing\] beautiful works of art perfectly fitted to the customer's needs" motto of the bespoke developer. Another important distinction that the article made was about the future career paths of software developers versus software engineers. The author believes that software engineers are headed more along the path of team leads and management, whereas software developers are likely to become consultants.

---

## Comments

I think it's interesting to note that at one point in the article, the author alludes to the fact that this difference in creative styles between the two roles may be attributed to the scope in which they operate. The article states that software developers "work on a limited scale" and "can afford to think of various ways to approach a problem." In contrast, the software engineer "usually has to solve a problem on a large scale" leaving "little room for expressing creativity." This difference in scope compounds into a difference in the involvement the two roles have with other team members. The software developer's smaller scope leads to less involvement with the rest of the team while the software engineer's larger scope leads to more involvement. Having a smaller or larger pool of people to depend on and be depended upon makes up another reason why the two roles may allow for more or less creativity and looseness. (Bruce Wu)